Figma blog post (#384)
statelyai/docs: blog/2024-01-24-embed-figma/index.mdx

---
title: Embed Figma in Stately
description: You can now embed Figma frames in Stately states
tags: [stately, studio, figma, design, statecharts, state machines, xstate]
authors: [nick]
date: 2024-01-24
slug: 2024-01-24-embed-figma
image: /blog/2024-01-24-embed-figma/figma-dark.png
---

> We already kicked off 2024 with several major updates to Stately such as inspecting live XState code, syncing with GitHub, and writing code for actions and actors in the Studio. Now we’re excited to announce that we've also launched an integration with Figma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We already kicked off 2024 with several major updates to Stately such as inspecting live XState code, syncing with GitHub, and writing code for actions and actors in the Studio. Now we’re excited to announce that we've also launched an integration with Figma!
```
Just because "we're excited" but not a must.

Reviewer: On one hand it make sense to add links to "inspecting XState code", "syncing with GitHub". It also could be helpful to refer to these by their "official" feature names. On the other hand, maybe we don't need links in the opening paragraph before the truncation. Curious to hear what you or others think about links in the opening paragraph.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{/* truncate */}
```

This will show the first paragraph in the blog page and then allow it to be expanded to see the full post

> You can now attach frames in Figma to states in Stately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now attach Figma frames to states in Stately.
```

I love the symmetry of the original sentence, but I think this might be a bit easier to understand?

<p>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="An example of Figma frames embedded in three Stately states for a music player."
    sources={{
      light: '/blog/2024-01-24-embed-figma/figma-light.png',
      dark: '/blog/2024-01-24-embed-figma/figma-dark.png',
    }}
  />
</p>

## Improve your team workflows by combining Stately and Figma

Embedding Figma into Stately can significantly streamline and enhance a team's workflow.

> Being able to view mockups of the states you are discussing make it easy to _see_ what might be missing and identify potential improvements. It allows team members to view designs directly as part of the app logic itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Being able to view mockups of the states you are discussing makes it easy to _see_ what might be missing and to identify potential improvements. It allows team members to view designs directly as part of the app logic itself.
```

Two examples of how this can work are:

- Engineers can import state machine code, then designers can fill out images for each state of the actual logic in the code.

- Designers, PMs, and other stakeholders can create the expected behavior by embedding Figma frames into a Stately diagram, then engineers can continue adding the functionality from the automatically scaffolded code.

This seamless integration can speed up the design process and ensure all team members are on the same page. Team members can easily share design details, run critiques, and iterate with people across different specializations.

It also ensures that everyone is always looking at the most up-to-date design, as changes made in Figma are instantly reflected in the embedded view. And with [GitHub Sync](https://stately.ai/blog/2024-01-09-introducing-bidirectional-github-sync) enabled, changes to the code can even automatically update how the Figma frames are structured in Stately.

## How to embed Figma frames

> Figma embedding is part of our [Pro plan](/docs/studio-pro-plan). We offer a trial period if you would like to try it out.

Reviewer: Do we want to add a link to the Pricing page or to the Billing page in Studio for "We offer a free trial period"?

> It also ensures that everyone is always looking at the most up-to-date design, as changes made in Figma are instantly reflected in the embedded view. And with [GitHub Sync](blog/2024-01-09-introducing-bidirectional-github-sync) enabled, changes to the code can even automatically update how the Figma frames are structured in Stately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also ensures that everyone is always looking at the most up-to-date design, as changes made in Figma are instantly reflected in the embedded view. And with [GitHub Sync](blog/2024-01-09-introducing-bidirectional-github-sync) enabled, changes to the code can even automatically update where the Figma frames are displayed in Stately.
```

Just because otherwise it sounds a bit like you can change the content of the Figma frames with code.

> Figma embedding is part of our [Pro plan](/docs/studio-pro-plan). We offer a trial period if you would like to try it out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Figma embedding is part of our [Pro plan](/docs/studio-pro-plan). You can [try all our premium features for free with our free trial](https://stately.ai/pricing).
```

To embed Figma frames in Stately, first you need to authenticate using a personal access token.

1. [Get a personal access token](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/8085703771159-Manage-personal-access-tokens) from Figma.
2. Enter this token in Stately by opening a project, finding the **Stately menu** in the top left, selecting **Account**, opening **Settings**, and clicking the **Figma** tab.

Then you can link frames to states.

3. In Figma, right click on the frame you want to embed, select **Copy/Paste as**, then **Copy link”.
4. In Stately, select a state, open the **+** menu, choose **Embed Figma**, and paste your link.

[Watch a video of how embedding Figma frames works](https://www.youtube.com/live/c05bOPeinSA?si=qyUlnx7f7_StLDZ_&t=1006) from our recent Office Hours.

> ![Frame inside Figma showing the menu for copy/paste as, and copy link. Alongside a frame in Stately showing the plus menu and the Embed Figma option.](figmatostately.png)

Reviewer: We could add a light mode/dark mode version of this image.

Reviewer: I wish we had a way to click to view a larger, clearer version of this image since the text in the menus is so small and unclear. For now, the closest thing is right click and choose Open image in a new tab.

Now any changes to this frame in Figma will be automatically reflected in Stately after each page load.

You can delete the embed or adjust the size of the image by selecting the state and finding the controls at the top right of the embedded image.

A few more details to get you rolling:

- Stately supports linking to any type of Figma node that you can get,
  not just frames. But we recommend generally using frames due to how well they
  correspond to states.

> - Figma embeds are a new type of “asset” in Stately. We also support attaching images, videos, documents, and PDFs to states as assets. You can feature a single asset on the canvas at a time. To feature a different asset, open the state details panel and drag that asset to the first position in the assets list.

Reviewer: We could link to [Assets in the docs](https://stately.ai/docs/assets), although we could also flesh that page out a bit more with mention of these other formats.

- Stately embeds Figma frames as SVG images. This means fast load times and great scaling quality across different sizes. However, a few features of Figma (like background blur) are not supported in svg exports. When you notice an issue and high visual fidelity is important, you can export the frame as a PNG image and then attach the image itself as an image asset to the Stately state (rather than as a Figma embed from a link). It just won't be automatically synced.

## Try it out!

We are excited to see what you do with this feature. There is a lot of potential for reducing silos between roles and helping make communication smoother.

> Please share your feedback with us on our [social platforms](https://discord.stately.ai) or in our regular [office hours live streams](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Jf9N-EaUx0&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd6PXbSoctwDXjWX-AQrxhds). If you want help getting started with sources or getting your team set up with Stately and XState, [the Stately team is available for workshops and consulting](https://stately.ai/pricing), and you can [book a demo call](https://calendly.com/d/yc8-3hq-rpc/request-a-demo) with us to learn more about how Stately can work for your team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please share your feedback with us on our [social platforms](https://discord.stately.ai) or in our regular [office hours live streams](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Jf9N-EaUx0&list=PLvWgkXBB3dd6PXbSoctwDXjWX-AQrxhds). If you want help getting started with embedding Figma frames or getting your team set up with Stately and XState, [the Stately team is available for workshops and consulting](https://stately.ai/pricing), and you can [book a demo call](https://calendly.com/d/yc8-3hq-rpc/request-a-demo) with us to learn more about how Stately can work for your team.
```
